squid3/README.md, before:

squid3 config
=============

There are two squid3 instances for the default landing page of using transparent proxy
and for the proxy itself with authentication (requiring user action to change their
browser setting).

In this case both are hosted within the same server with IP address `192.168.40.111`
managing `192.168.40.0/24` network. The host is also resolvable with some naming e.g.
`proxy1.some-company.net` (although IP should work in the case of no DNS to resolve
that name)

* `squid-landing.conf`

This squid3 instance is listening to port `3300` in transparent mode.
iptables redirect incoming `*:80` (`http`) requests to this port.
a landing page will show up instead to show instruction on how user can change their
browser setting.

Manually start this instance by:

`$ /usr/sbin/squid3 -f /etc/squid3/squid-landing.conf`

* `squid-ncsa.conf`

This is the proxy, listening to port `3128`, related user setting can be found in
`proxy.pac`, the PAC file that will configure the browser.

Authentication used is `NCSA` using list of username-password in `/etc/squid3/passwd`
Generating password is done interactively by doing e.g.:

`$ htpasswd /etc/squid3/passwd some-user`

Manually start this instances by:

`$ /usr/sbin/squid3 -f /etc/squid3/squid-ncsa.conf`

* `corpdomainlist`

This is used by the proxy for allowed sites that need no proxy authentication.

main cache tuning
-----------------

The main `squid3` cache used dominantly as HTTP proxy is using `cache_dir` option
to not only cache to memory. Cache to memory is generally faster. The use of this
directory cache is part to be evaluated and tuned according to implementation
case. It is also meant so the cache is explicitly different from the landing page
(second `squid3` instance).

As a general rule of thumb: 10 percent for `squid3` overhead, another 10 percent for
OS need. Hence, in example given by [Squid FAQ Configuring] [1] , 9GB partition
reserved for cache is set to 7000 Mbytes at maximum allowed configuration.

For `cache_mem` one rule of thumb is to configure only one third of the total memory
consumption (read [Squid FAQ Memory] [2] for in depth example).

  [1]: http://wiki.squid-cache.org/SquidFaq/ConfiguringSquid	"Squid FAQ Configuring"
  
  [2]: http://wiki.squid-cache.org/SquidFaq/SquidMemory		"Squid FAQ Memory"

Commit message:

v1.1 more info on default landing vs main cache proxy in README.md

squid3/README.md, after:

squid3 config
=============

There are two `squid3` instances for the default landing page of using transparent proxy
and for the proxy itself with authentication (requiring user action to change their
browser setting).

In this case both are hosted within the same server with IP address `192.168.40.111`
managing `192.168.40.0/24` network. The host is also resolvable with some naming e.g.
`proxy1.some-company.net`

(IP should work in the case of no DNS to resolve that name but the change must also
reflected to resolve `landing1.some-company.net`)

landing page
------------

* `squid-landing.conf`

This squid3 instance is listening to port `3300` in transparent mode.
iptables redirect incoming `*:80` (`http`) requests to this port.
a landing page will show up instead to show instruction on how user can change their
browser setting.

This instance intercepting port `3300` is usually called accelerator/reverse proxy.  

Manually start this instance by:

`$ /usr/sbin/squid3 -f /etc/squid3/squid-landing.conf`

(for how it is start/stop during reboot check the `init` section)

main cache
----------

As an example of authentication, `NCSA` is used.

* `squid-ncsa.conf`

This is the main cache proxy, listening to port `3128`, related user setting
can be found in `proxy.pac`, the PAC file will then *configure* the browser.

`NCSA` is using list of username-password in `/etc/squid3/passwd`
Generating password is done interactively by doing e.g.:

`$ htpasswd /etc/squid3/passwd some-user`

Manually start this instances by:

`$ /usr/sbin/squid3 -f /etc/squid3/squid-ncsa.conf`

(for how it is start/stop during reboot check the `init` section)

* `corpdomainlist`

This file is used by the proxy for allowed sites (usually internal) that
require no proxy authentication.

main cache tuning
-----------------

The main `squid3` cache used dominantly as HTTP proxy is using `cache_dir` option
to not only cache to memory. Cache to memory is generally faster. The use of this
directory cache is part to be evaluated and tuned according to implementation
case. It is also meant so the cache is explicitly *different* from the *landing page*
(second `squid3` instance).

As a general rule of thumb: 10 percent for `squid3` overhead, another 10 percent for
OS need. Hence, in example given by [Squid FAQ Configuring] [1] , 9GB partition
reserved for cache is set to 7000 Mbytes at maximum allowed configuration.

For `cache_mem` one rule of thumb is to configure only one third of the total memory
consumption (read [Squid FAQ Memory] [2] for in depth example).

  [1]: http://wiki.squid-cache.org/SquidFaq/ConfiguringSquid "Squid FAQ Configuring"  
  [2]: http://wiki.squid-cache.org/SquidFaq/SquidMemory "Squid FAQ Memory"
